- [Instructor] The most popular ORM framework
is JPA.
So how did that happen?
What's the backstory of JPA?
In the early to mid 2000'S,
ORM frameworks arrived.
The most popular were Hibernate, TopLink, and IBATIS.
Different frameworks diverge development
so industry experts work together
to form an ORM standard.
The result was the
Java persistence application programming interface.
Through the Java Community process,
the JPA spec version 2.0 final a.k.a. JSR 317
was released in December 2009.
JPA is a specification,
it is not an actual framework.
Framework, such as Hibernate and EclipseLink,
as well as Java Enterprise Edition compliant
application servers
provide the implementation.
So even if we speak about a Java application
that uses JPA,
it is actually using another provider
following the JPA spec.
The spec includes metadata declarations
to map Java classes, now called entities,
to database tables.
An EntityManager creates, reads, updates,
and deletes the entities.
Changes to the entity's state
are reflected back to the database.
The entity metadata is in the form of .xml files,
or within Java classes, via Java annotations.
This tutorial only demonstrates Java annotations.
Please refer to the JPA specification
if you prefer xml.